[agent] Document the ability to use vector (#10790)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/vector_aggregation.md

---
title: Aggregating Multiple Agents Using Vector
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/logs/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Collect your logs"
- link: "/agent/proxy/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure the Agent to use a proxy"
- link: "https://vector.dev/docs/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Vector documentation"

---

## Overview 

> The Datadog Agent can be used along with [Vector][1]. In this scenario Agents will send data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent can be used along with [Vector][1]. In this scenario Agents send data
```

> to Vector which will aggregate data from multiple upstream Agents:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to Vector, which aggregates data from multiple upstream Agents:
```

> `Agents ---> Vector ---> Datadog`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Agents -> Vector -> Datadog`
```

> This scenario differs from using a <a href="/agent/proxy">proxy</a> in the extend that Vector is able to

Reviewer 2: Use standard Markdown links here (and elsewhere):

```markdown
[proxy](/agent/proxy)
```

This scenario differs from using a [proxy][2] since Vector is able to process data before sending

> it to Datadog and other destinations. Vector capabilities include, among others:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it to Datadog and other destinations. Vector capabilities include:
```

* [Log parsing, structuring, and enrichment][3]
* Cost reduction through [sampling][4]
* [Redaction of PII][5] and sensitive data before it leaves your network
* [Deriving metrics from logs][6] for cost effective analysis
* [Routing to multiple destinations][7]

> **Note**: Only logs aggregation is currently supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Notes**:
```

> **Note**: Vector can also directly collect logs from alternative sources. If doing so, it is likely that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Only logs aggregation is supported.
- Vector can directly collect logs from alternative sources. When doing so, third party logs may not include proper tagging. A convenient way to [add tags][8], source or service values is to use the [Vector Remap Language][9].
```

> third party logs won't come with proper tagging. A convenient way to [add tags][8], source or service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> values is to use the [Vector Remap Language][9].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

## Configuration

### Agent configuration
To send logs to Vector, update the Agent configuration file, `datadog.yaml`.

> Only the logs data type is currently supported. Update the following values in the `datadog.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Only the logs data type is supported. Update the following values in the `datadog.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  logs_dd_url: "<VECTOR_HOST>:<VECTOR_PORT>"

>   logs_no_ssl: true # If TLS/SSL is not enabled on the vector side

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  logs_no_ssl: true # If TLS/SSL is not enabled on the Vector side
```

  use_http: true # Vector `datadog_logs` source only supports HTTP
```

Where `VECTOR_HOST` is the hostname of the system running Vector and `VECTOR_PORT` is the TCP port on which

> the Vector `datadog_logs` source will be listening.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the Vector `datadog_logs` source is listening.
```

### Vector configuration
To receive logs from Datadog Agent, configure Vector with a [datadog_logs source][10].

> To send logs to Datadog, Vector should be configured with at least one [datadog_logs sink][11].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send logs to Datadog, Vector must be configured with at least one [datadog_logs sink][11].
```

See the official [Vector documentation][12] for all available configuration parameters and

> all transforms that can be applied to logs while they are processed by Vector.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
transforms that can be applied to logs while they are processed by Vector.
```

Here is a configuration example that adds a tag to every log using the Vector Remap Language:

```yaml
sources:
  datadog_agents:
    type: datadog_logs

>     address: "[::]:8080" # The <VECTOR_PORT> mentionned above should be set to the port value used here

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    address: "[::]:8080" # The <VECTOR_PORT> mentioned above should be set to the port value used here
```

transforms:
  add_tags:
    type: remap
    inputs:
      - datadog_agents
    source: |
      .ddtags = .ddtags + ",sender:vector"

sinks:
  to_datadog:
    type: datadog_logs
    inputs:
       - add_tags
    default_api_key: "${DATADOG_API_KEY_ENV_VAR}"
    encoding:
      codec: json
```

### Using Kubernetes

> Using the official Datadog chart the configuration settings [described above](#agent-configuration) can be added 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the official Datadog chart the [Agent configuration settings](#agent-configuration) described above can be added 
```

> to the `agents.customAgentConfig` value (Note that `agent.useConfigMap` shall also be set to `true`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the `agents.customAgentConfig` value. **Note**: `agent.useConfigMap` must be set to `true`
```

> for `agents.customAgentConfig` to be taken into account).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for `agents.customAgentConfig` to be taken into account.
```

For additional details about the Datadog Helm chart, see [the Kubernetes documentation][13].

Vector provides an [official chart for aggregating data][14] that comes with a Datadog
logs source preconfigured. For more information about installing Vector using Helm,
see to the [official Vector documentation][15].

> To ultimately send logs to Datadog, a `datadog_logs` sink need to be added to the Vector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send logs to Datadog, a `datadog_logs` sink need to be added to the Vector
```

configuration. Vector's chart can hold any valid Vector configuration in the `values.yaml` file using the

> `customConfig` field. In order to enable a `datadog_logs` the same kind of configuration that the one 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`customConfig` field. To enable `datadog_logs` the same kind of configuration as 
```

> described [above](#vector-configuration) can be directlyt included as-is in the Vector chart configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
described under [Vector configuration](#vector-configuration) can be directly included as-is in the Vector chart configuration.
```

## Manipulating Datadog logs with Vector

> Logs sent to Vector can benefit from the full capabilities of Vector, including [Vector Remap Language][3] for fast and safe log transformations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Logs sent to Vector can benefit from the full capabilities of Vector, including [Vector Remap Language][3] for log transformations.
```

When received by Vector, logs sent by the Datadog Agent are structured using the expected schema. When

> submitting logs directly to the Datadog API, please refer to the [API documentation][16]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
submitting logs directly to the Datadog API, see the [API documentation][16]
```

---

> title: Aggregating multiple agents using Vector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: Aggregating Multiple Agents Using Vector
```

kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/logs/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Collect your logs"
- link: "/agent/proxy/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Configure the Agent to use a proxy"

---

## Overview 

> The Datadog agent can be used along with [Vector][1], in this scenario Agents will send data
> to Vector that will aggregate data from multiple incoming Agent:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The Datadog Agent can be used along with [Vector][1], in this scenario Agents will send data
to Vector that will aggregate data from multiple upstream Agents:
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Datadog agent can be used along with [Vector][1]. In this scenario, the Agents will send data
to Vector which will aggregate data from multiple upstream Agents:
```

`Agents ---> Vector ---> Datadog`

> This scenario differs from using a [proxy][2] in the extend that Vector is able to
> process data before sending them to Datadog. Vector capabilities include, among others:
> * Log sampling
> * Log deduplication to avoid duplicated log to be send
> * Transforming logs using the [Vector Remap Language][3]

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This scenario differs from using a [proxy][2] since Vector is able to
process data before sending it to Datadog and other destinations. Vector capabilities include, among others:

* [Log parsing, structuring, and enrichment][3]
* Cost reduction through [sampling][12]
* [Redaction of PII][15] and sensitive data before it leaves your network
* [Deriving metrics from logs][13] for cost effective analysis
* [Routing to multiple destinations][14]
```

> **Note**: Only logs aggregation is supported, support for other data type (metrics, processes, traces, etc.)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: Only logs aggregation is currently supported.
```

> **Note**: Only logs aggregation is supported, support for other data type (metrics, processes, traces, etc.)
> will be available later.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Note**: Only logs aggregation is supported, support for other data type (metrics, processes, traces, etc.)
will be available at a future date.
```

Reviewer 3: Remove note about later / future date. We refrain from adding to the docs to avoid issues.

> will be available later.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> **Note**: Vector can also directly collect logs from alternative sources, if doing so it is likely that those 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Note**: Vector can also directly collect logs from alternative sources. If doing so, it is likely that 
```

> third party logs won't come with proper tagging. A convenient way of [adding tags][4], source or service values is to do so using the [Vector Remap Language][3].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
third party logs won't come with proper tagging. A convenient way to [add tags][4], source, or service values is to use the [Vector Remap Language][3].
```

## Configuration

### Agent configuration

> To send logs to vector the Agent configuration file, `datadog.yaml` should be update to send data to Vector.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To send logs to Vector, update the Agent configuration file, `datadog.yaml`, to send data to Vector.
```

> As only logs data type are currently supported, you need to update the following values in your `datadog.yaml`:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Only the logs data type is currently supported. Update the following values in the `datadog.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
logs_config:
  logs_dd_url: "<VECTOR_HOST>:<VECTOR_PORT>"
  logs_no_ssl: true # If TLS/SSL is not enabled on the vector side
```

### Vector configuration

> To receive logs from Datadog Agent Vector should be configured with a [datadog_logs source][5].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To receive logs from Datadog, Configure Vector with a [datadog_logs source][5].
```

> To send logs to Datadog, Vector should be configured with at least one [datadog_logs sink][6].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To send logs to Datadog, configure Vector with at least one [datadog_logs sink][6].
```

> Please check the official [Vector documentation][7] for all available configuration parameters and

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See the official [Vector documentation][7] for all available configuration parameters and
```

all transforms that can be applied to logs while they are processed by Vector.

> Sample configuration that simply add a tag to every log using the Vector Remap Language:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here is a configuration example that adds a tag to every log using the Vector Remap Language:
```

```yaml
sources:
  datadog_agents:
    type: datadog_logs
    address: "[::]:8080"

transforms:
  add_tags:
    type: remap
    inputs:
      - datadog_agents
    source: |
      .ddtags = add_datadog_tags!(.ddtags, ["sender:vector"])

sinks:
  to_datadog:
    type: datadog_logs
    inputs:
       - add_tags
    default_api_key: "${DATADOG_API_KEY_ENV_VAR}"
    compression: gzip
    encoding:
      codec: json
    healthcheck:
      enabled: true
```

### Using Kubernetes

> Using the official Datadog chart the following values need to be updated:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

Using the official Datadog Helm chart, update the following values:

```

Reviewer 5: cc @prognant I don't think this is actually resolved.

```yaml
agents:
  useConfigMap: true
  agents.customAgentConfig:
    logs_dd_url: "<VECTOR_HOST>:<VECTOR_PORT>"
    logs_no_ssl: true # If TLS/SSL is not enabled on the vector side
```

> For additional details about the Datadog chart, please check [this page][8].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For additional details about the Datadog Helm chart, see [the Kubernetes documentation][8].
```

> Vector provide an [offical chart for aggregating data][9] that comes with a Datadog

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Vector provides an [official chart for aggregating data][9] that comes with a Datadog
```

> logs source preconfigured. For more information about installing Vector using Helm

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
logs source preconfigured. For more information about installing Vector using Helm,
```

> please refer to the [official Vector documentation][10].

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
see the [official Vector documentation][10].
```

> To ultimately sent logs to Datadog, a `datadog_logs` sinks need to be added to the Vector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To ultimately sent logs to Datadog, a `datadog_logs` sink need to be added to the Vector
```

> configuration. The Vector's chart easily support adding additional sinks in its `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
configuration. Vector's chart supports adding additional sinks in the `values.yaml` file.
```

> A sample `datadog_logs` sinks would consist in the following additions, it includes a `remap` transform

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A sample `datadog_logs` sink should iinclude a `remap` transform
```

> that simply adds a Datadog tag to recognize logs forwarded by Vector:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
that adds a Datadog tag to recognize logs forwarded by Vector:
```

```yaml
transforms:
  add_tags:
    type: remap
    inputs:
      - datadog_logs # It's the name of the preconfigured Datadog source
    source: |
      .ddtags = .ddtags + ",sender:vector"

sinks:
  to_datadog:
    type: datadog_logs
    inputs:
       - add_tags
    default_api_key: "${DATADOG_API_KEY_ENV_VAR}"
    compression: gzip
    encoding:
      codec: json
    healthcheck:
      enabled: true
```

> ## Manipulating Datadog Logs with Vector

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Manipulating Datadog logs with Vector
```

Logs sent to Vector can benefit from the full capabilities of Vector, including [VRL][3] manipulation.

> When received by Vector, logs sent by a Datadog Agent are structured using the expected schema when

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When received by Vector, logs sent by the Datadog Agent are structured using the expected schema. When
```

> submitting logs directly to the Datadog API, please refer to the [API documention][11]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
submitting logs directly to the Datadog API, please refer to the [API documentation][11]
```

> for a complete schema description.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
for a complete schema descriptions.
```

> Logs collected by Vector from other sources can be fully enriched according to

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Logs collected by Vector from other sources can be [fully enriched][4].
```

> [Datadog recommandation][4], VRL can be used to adjust those logs to fill relevant

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
VRL can be used to adjust logs to fill relevant
```

---
title: Aggregating Multiple Agents Using Vector
kind: documentation
further_reading:
- link: "/logs/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Collect your logs"
- link: "/agent/proxy/"
  tag: "Documentation"

>   text: "Configure the Agent to use a proxy"

Author: I think it's a good idea, it appears at the end of the page.

---

## Overview 

The Datadog Agent can be used along with [Vector][1]. In this scenario Agents will send data
to Vector which will aggregate data from multiple upstream Agents:

`Agents ---> Vector ---> Datadog`

This scenario differs from using a [proxy][2] since Vector is able to process data before sending
it to Datadog and other destinations. Vector capabilities include, among others:
others:

* [Log parsing, structuring, and enrichment][3]
* Cost reduction through [sampling][4]
* [Redaction of PII][5] and sensitive data before it leaves your network
* [Deriving metrics from logs][6] for cost effective analysis
* [Routing to multiple destinations][7]

**Note**: Only logs aggregation is currently supported.

**Note**: Vector can also directly collect logs from alternative sources. If doing so, it is likely that 
third party logs won't come with proper tagging. A convenient way to [add tags][8], source or service
values is to use the [Vector Remap Language][3].

## Configuration

### Agent configuration
To send logs to Vector, update the Agent configuration file, `datadog.yaml`.

> Only the logs data type is currently supported. Update the following values in the `datadog.yaml` file:
> ```yaml

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Only the logs data type is currently supported. Update the following values in the `datadog.yaml` file:

```yaml
```

logs_config:

>   logs_dd_url: "<VECTOR_HOST>:<VECTOR_PORT>"

Reviewer 5: It might be worth clarifying that `VECTOR_PORT` specifically means the port used in the `datadog_logs` source (the example below uses `8080`), not a generic "Vector port".

Author: I update the doc to add a bit more detail about that.

  logs_no_ssl: true # If TLS/SSL is not enabled on the vector side
```

### Vector configuration
To receive logs from Datadog Agent, configure Vector with a [datadog_logs source][9].
To send logs to Datadog, Vector should be configured with at least one [datadog_logs sink][10].

See the official [Vector documentation][11] for all available configuration parameters and
all transforms that can be applied to logs while they are processed by Vector.

> Here is a configuration example that adds a tag to every log using the Vector Remap Language:
> ```yaml

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Here is a configuration example that adds a tag to every log using the Vector Remap Language:

```yaml
```

sources:
  datadog_agents:
    type: datadog_logs
    address: "[::]:8080"

transforms:
  add_tags:
    type: remap
    inputs:
      - datadog_agents
    source: |
      .ddtags = .ddtags + ",sender:vector"

sinks:
  to_datadog:
    type: datadog_logs
    inputs:
       - add_tags
    default_api_key: "${DATADOG_API_KEY_ENV_VAR}"

>     compression: gzip

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

I suggest excluding defaults here.

    encoding:
      codec: json

>     healthcheck:
>       enabled: true

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

I suggest excluding defaults here.

```

### Using Kubernetes

Using the official Datadog chart the following values need to be updated:

```yaml
agents:
  useConfigMap: true
  agents.customAgentConfig:

>     logs_dd_url: "<VECTOR_HOST>:<VECTOR_PORT>"

Reviewer 5: same, re: `VECTOR_PORT`

    logs_no_ssl: true # If TLS/SSL is not enabled on the vector side
```

For additional details about the Datadog Helm chart, see [the Kubernetes documentation][12].

Vector provides an [official chart for aggregating data][13] that comes with a Datadog
logs source preconfigured. For more information about installing Vector using Helm,
see to the [official Vector documentation][14].

> To ultimately sent logs to Datadog, a `datadog_logs` sink need to be added to the Vector

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
To ultimately send logs to Datadog, a `datadog_logs` sink need to be added to the Vector
```

configuration. Vector's chart supports adding additional sinks in the `values.yaml` file.

A sample `datadog_logs` sink should ideally include a `remap` transform
that adds a Datadog tag to recognize logs forwarded by Vector:

```yaml
transforms:
  add_tags:
    type: remap
    inputs:

>       - datadog_logs # It's the name of the preconfigured Datadog source

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
      - datadog_logs # The name of the preconfigured Datadog source
```

    source: |
      .ddtags = .ddtags + ",sender:vector"

sinks:
  to_datadog:
    type: datadog_logs
    inputs:
       - add_tags
    default_api_key: "${DATADOG_API_KEY_ENV_VAR}"
    compression: gzip
    encoding:
      codec: json
    healthcheck:
      enabled: true

> ```

Reviewer 5: There seems to be a lot of duplication here with the previous chapter. Are we sure we want to list this config again?

Author: Good idea, I leveraged timberio/vector#8168 that provide some shortcut to say just use the same config in `customConfig` and that's it.

## Manipulating Datadog logs with Vector

> Logs sent to Vector can benefit from the full capabilities of Vector, including [VRL][3] manipulation.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Logs sent to Vector can benefit from the full capabilities of Vector, including [Vector Remap Language][3] for fast and safe log transformations.
```

When received by Vector, logs sent by the Datadog Agent are structured using the expected schema. When
submitting logs directly to the Datadog API, please refer to the [API documentation][15]

> for a complete schema descriptions.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
for a complete schema description.
```
